
They say, nothing is certain in this world except for life, death and taxes. if you throw some meatballs, blondes and some more taxes into the equation you have Sweden.

The past two months have flown by and it didn't even occur to me that I haven't fulfilled my promise of covering my new swedish adventure. I'd apologize for not being on top of this but I don't think anyone really gives a shit about this blog. So let's get started.

My two months here here has been spent standing in lines, eating kebabs, learning to ride a bicycle, getting locked out of laundry rooms and figuring out why the hell there are eight different kinds of garbage boxes. I guess we could say that confusion has been the major theme of these first two months. Life here has been strange to say the least. I can't remember America giving me such a hard time when it came to starting a new life. In Sweden, there are systems in place for everything you can imagine and this makes your day twice as long.

What if, after a long day at school you want to go do some homework in the study lounge. You can't just enter the lounge like normal lounges in the rest of the world. You have to go online and book an actual spot. Each chair has a god damn number that determines where you sit. Same with laundry but if you're late by 15 minutes -too bad it won't let you go in anymore. What if you get hungry after spending all day making study room and laundry room reservations and you want to grab something to eat? You have the option to eat kebabs and pizzas or kebabs and pizzas. The lack of variety is appalling so you go to the supermarket to buy yourself something to eat at home. You then realize that the frozen lasagna you bought actually costs more than the kebab that you should have bought in the first place. But you're too pissed off to care so you eat your frozen lasagna anyway. Then comes the part where you have to throw away the lasagna box. You can't just throw away this box in regular trash, you have to go outside 50m away to the recycling room and put it away in one of the eight dumpsters. When you're  on your way to the recycling room you realize you didn't bring your fob with you so now you have to go back to your room to get it. Yes, in Sweden, you need a key to access your GARBAGE. Second time around, you are back on your way to the recyling room only to be hit in the face by a freezing blast of wind in September and it is at this point you pull out your phone and start looking for the next flight out of here.  

That's enough ripping on Sweden but frustration at some of the Swedish ways of doing things would be an understatement to say the least. But bureaucracy aside, Sweden has really felt like home moreso than anywhere else I've been. Not once have I felt like I didn't belong here and that's something I can't say for other countries I've been. Even with the confounded look on my face everytime I go into the supermarket, the staff always initiate the conversation in Swedish. When they realize I don't speak Svenska, they nonchlantly switch to English without any hesitation. Anywhere else in the world, that wouldn't fly. In America, you're greeted with bumper stickers that read "If you don't speak english - go home". The level of tolerance shown by Swedes really makes me wonder if they're human because I have never met people that are as accomodating as them. 

Let me go back to being an asshole for a momment and generalize the entire Swedish population to give you some sterotypes I've noticed since coming here. The one really strange thing that steps out is that they don't apologize when they bump into you. They kind of give you a silent nod without saying anything and it's the same when they have to thank you for opening the door for them. I still haven't figured out if this is a good or a bad thing, but I'm really starting to enjoy having to speak less every day. Second, Swedes are the most diplomatic individuals I have ever come across. You can ask them the most meaningless question and you won't get a hard answer. "Hey, you like ice-cream?" The reply - " Not really, but i'm sure it can be nice sometimes". I'm honestly waiting for the day I hear a Swede say they hate something. Then you also have the standard sterotype where they don't sit next to other people on the bus, which is true but I don't think it's significantly different from other parts of the world. I expected it to be a lot more exaggerated than what I've seen. Oh I almost forgot to mention, but Swedes grab every opportunity to dress up in costumes. The word Halloween means absolutely nothing here because it's like any other weekend. This doesn't only apply to partys because they spend a lot of time dressing up to go to class as well. I'm really curious to know how many hours of sleep they lose in order to look that good. It's especially become a major problem for me when I roll into class in my sweats lookin' like a homeless lecture crasher.  

I think this is a good time to stop or else I won't have any new sterotypes for next time. But all in all, Sweden has been great. I've met some really cool people and made some real friends for life. Not to mention, the country is freaking gorgeous. The first two months have flown by and I'm ecstatic to see what the next 8 months have in store for me. Wait.. probably a lot of darkness. Ahh shit. Stay tuned folks, until next time. 

